# 4.1 Describe ETSI NFV

## Links (Sources)

- [ETSI Publications](https://www.etsi.org/committee/nfv)
- [SDxCentral](https://www.sdxcentral.com/networking/nfv/definitions/nfv-elements-overview/)
- [What is ETSI ISG NFV?](https://www.sdxcentral.com/networking/nfv/definitions/etsi-isg-nfv/)

## ETSI

- The European Telecommunications Standards Institute Industry Specification Group for Network Functions Virtualization (ETSI ISG NFV) took the helm developing NFV technologies and creating a common reference architecture.

What is NFV?

Network Functions Virtualization (NFV) is the decoupling of network functions from proprietary hardware appliances and running them as software in virtual machines (VMs). 
The different functions — such as firewalls, traffic control, and virtual routing — are called virtual network functions (VNFs).

Key Points

- NFV decouples network functions from the hardware
- Those network functions are called virtual network functions (VNFs)
- VNFs run in virtual machines on commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) hardware
- COTS hardware is typically x86 servers
- NFV is used by software-defined networks
- NFV allows for scaling of VMs to handle changes in data center traffic
- NFV theoretically simplifies network operation, but not always in practice
- SDN and NFV are related but independent of each other

Highlights

- NFV specifications describe and specify virtualization requirements, NFV architecture framework, functional components and their interfaces, as well as the protocols and the APIs for these interfaces. Another set of NFV specifications define the structure and format of deployment templates and how to package all artifacts which are used by the NFV management and orchestration framework.

- ETSI ISG NFV exists side by side with the current Technical Organization, but they do have their own membership, which can be comprised of both ETSI and non-ETSI members (under some conditions). ISGs have their own voting rules and approve their own deliverables, as they independently choose their own work program.

- Network functions virtualization (NFV) focuses on addressing these problems. By evolving standard IT virtualization technology, NFV implements network functions into software so that it can run on a range of industry-standard server hardware and may easily be moved to various locations within the network as needed. With NFV, the necessity to install new equipment is eliminated. This results in lower CapEx and OpEx, shorter time-to-market deployment of network services, higher return on investment, more flexibility to scale up or scale down, openness to the virtual device network, as well as more opportunity to test and deploy new services with lower risk.

- The ETSI ISG NFV helps by setting requirements and architecture specifications for hardware and software infrastructure needed to make sure virtualized functions are maintained. ETSI ISG NFV also manages guidelines for developing network functions.  It routinely publishes its research findings to advance the industry’s use of NFV.

SdxCentral has proved to be an awesome resource to understand ETSI / NFV.
